FEEDBACK/APPRECIATION LETTER
          
A Study in Decision Making


Dr. Annika Hillebrandt, Department of Psychology, University of Waterloo, ahillebrandt@uwaterloo.ca

Dr. Laurie Barclay, Lang School of Business and Economics, University of Guelph, lbarcl01@uoguelph.ca

Caitlin Belfiore, Department of Psychology, University of Waterloo, cbelfiore@uwaterloo.ca

Megan Herrewynen, Department of Psychology, University of Waterloo, megan.herrewynen@uwaterloo.ca

Christine Hwang, Lang School of Business and Economics, University of Guelph, hwangc@uoguelph.ca  

Jenny Wang, Lang School of Business and Economics, University of Guelph, jwang76@uoguelph.ca

Thank you for your participation in our study. Your participation helps us to better understand how people complete decision-making tasks. More precisely, we are interested in how different types of goals influence people’s performance and self-reported scores. As part of this study, you were either given a “do your best” goal (i.e., you were instructed to do your best to create as many words as you can), a “mere goal” (i.e., you were given a goal to create 7 or more words and were told that in previous studies many students were able to achieve this goal), a “personal goal” (i.e., you were only given a goal to create 7 or more words), or a “reward goal” (i.e., in addition to being given a goal to create 7 or more words, you were told that your reward depended on your performance). You also completed measures of goal commitment and loss aversion. We are interested in examining whether the effects of goals depend on people’s level of commitment to their goal and their level of loss aversion (i.e., how unpleasant they find it to fall short of a goal).
If you have questions about the study or the procedures, you may contact Dr. Annika Hillebrandt at ahillebrandt@uwaterloo.ca. 
This study has been reviewed and received ethics clearance through a University of Waterloo Research Ethics Board (REB #46813). If you have questions for the Board, contact the Office of Research Ethics, toll-free at 1-833-643-2379 (Canada and USA), 1-519-888-4440, or reb@uwaterloo.ca.

If you wish to learn more about research in organizational psychology, we invite you to visit Dr. Hillebrandt’s lab website, where you can also download several published papers: https://uwaterloo.ca/justice-affect-and-morality-lab/
Thank you again for your assistance. We sincerely hope you enjoyed participating in this study.  

