        
A Study in Decision Making

You are invited to participate in a research study. This study has been reviewed and received ethics clearance from the Research Ethics Boards at the University of Waterloo and the University of Guelph. The study is being conducted by Dr. Annika Hillebrandt (an Assistant Professor of Industrial/Organizational Psychology at the University of Waterloo, Canada), Dr. Laurie Barclay (a Professor of Management at the University of Guelph, Canada), Caitlin Belfiore (a PhD student at the University of Waterloo), Megan Herrewynen (a PhD student at the University of Waterloo), Christine Hwang (a PhD student at the University of Guelph), and Jenny Wang (a PhD student at the University of Guelph). The study is funded by a grant from the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada. This study is part of a larger, multi-site research project.

Participation in this study is voluntary and will take no more than 1 hour of your time. If you agree to participate, you will be asked to complete a decision-making task in a lab or classroom on the University of Waterloo campus. You will also be asked to complete some measures related to the task, a personality measure, and basic demographics. In appreciation of your time, you will receive $7.00 CAD with an opportunity to receive more cash during the study. By volunteering for this study, you will have an opportunity to learn about research in psychology. 

You may decide to withdraw from this study at any time by advising the researcher and may do so without loss of your remuneration. Your identity in this study will be kept strictly confidential; your name will not be included or in any other way associated with the data collected in the study. All de-identified data will be securely stored in a locked office on the University of Waterloo campus. Electronic copies of the de-identified data will be stored on secure University of Waterloo servers or, as needed, on encrypted external drives for a minimum of 7 years. Furthermore, de-identified data related to your participation will be shared with our collaborators at other universities, submitted to an online repository, and submitted to a journal. This process is integral to the research process as it allows other researchers to verify results and avoid duplicating research.

The final decision about participation is yours. You may contact Dr. Annika Hillebrandt (ahillebrandt@uwaterloo.ca) if you have any questions or concerns about this study.

Please note that a study sign-up is a firm commitment to the researcher running the study, so select time slots carefully. If you cannot attend the lab study session at the specified time, please cancel the Sign-Up or contact the researcher in advance. Failure to appear for too many studies without providing adequate prior notice to the researcher may result in denial of access to further studies. Details are provided on the frequently asked questions (FAQs) page on your SONA account.