Approval Comment
This amendment has received ethics clearance. If you have any questions please contact Karen 
Pieters at karen.pieters@uwaterloo.ca. 
Review Type
Status
Submission
Number
Approval Date
Renewal Date
Expiration Date
Initial Approval Date
Initial Review Type

This study is part of a large multi-site replication initiative. Since our
preliminary data collection (STUDY 1) last year, this study was submitted to
Psychological Science in the form of a registered report. As part of the
review process, we made several changes to the protocol. We have now
received approval from Psychological Science (in the form of a conditional
acceptance) to go ahead and collect data for all conditions. We refer to the
planned data collection as "STUDY 2" below.
Annika Hillebrandt
Psychology
A Study in Decision Making

Standard application
I understand that the type of applications listed above determine the form I
am about to complete. If I have chosen the incorrect form I acknowledge
that I may need to complete a new application.
Annika Hillebrandt
Psychology
ahillebr@uwaterloo.ca
Principal Investigator
Full Access

Caitlin Belore
Psychology
cbelor@uwaterloo.ca
Co-Investigator
Full Access

Megan Herrewynen
Psychology
mrvherre@uwaterloo.ca
Co-Investigator
Full Access

Yes
Laurie
Barclay
Professor and Lang Chair in Leadership
University of Guelph - Gordon S. Lang School of Business and Economics
lbarcl01@uoguelph.ca
Co-Investigator

Jenny
Wang
PhD Candidate
University of Guelph - Gordon S. Lang School of Business and Economics
jwang76@uoguelph.ca
Student investigator
Christine
Hwang
PhD Student
University of Guelph - Gordon S. Lang School of Business and Economics
hwangc@uoguelph.ca

Student investigator
Yes
No and I am aware that my collaborating investigators may still need to
obtain an ethics review through their institutional REB.
No
October 14, 2024
September 30, 2026
Not a department requirement

Faculty, tenured, tenure track
No
No
STUDY 1: This pilot study will help us determine realistic performance
goals for our main study (which we are planning to conduct in Winter
2025). Participants will be given a series of anagrams and asked to create
as many words as possible across multiple rounds. STUDY 2: This study
uses the same task as Study 1 (which has now been completed) to
determine to what extent, when, and for whom goals promote unethical
behavior.

STUDY 1: We are conducting a pilot study to determine realistic
performance goals for our main study. Participants will be given a series of
anagrams and asked to create as many words as possible across multiple
rounds. We will be using these data to determine how many anagrams
participants can be expected to complete in a given amount of time.
STUDY 2: Study 2 is an extension of Study 1. The ultimate goal of the study
is to address key methodological limitations of the original study by
Schweitzer et al. (2004), test theoretically important boundary conditions
(e.g., trait loss aversion, goal proximity), and enhance generalizability by
contributing to a multi-site global project. We hypothesize the following:
H1. People with specic challenging goals (i.e., personal, mere, or reward
goals) are more likely to overstate their performance than people without
specic challenging goals (i.e., do-your-best condition). H2. Challenging
goal type is related to overstating performance. People with reward goals
are more likely to overstate their performance than those with mere goals,
who in turn are more likely to overstate their performance than those with
personal goals. H3a. People who fail to reach their goal by a smaller
margin are more likely to overstate their performance than if they were to
fail to reach their goal by a larger margin. H3b. People who reach their goal
are less likely to overstate their performance than if they failed to reach the
goal. H4. People with greater trait loss aversion are more likely to overstate
their performance. H5. The relationship between trait loss aversion and
overstating behavior is amplied in trials where people failed their goal by a
smaller margin than when they failed by a larger margin.

Our ultimate goal is to conduct a replication of Schweitzer, Ordoñez, and
Douma (2004) – a highly-inuential publication in the management
discipline. Replication studies are important to ensure the replicability and
generalizability of scientic ndings. Schweitzer et al. studied the effects
of goal-setting on students' performance and over-reporting on an
anagram task. STUDY 1: For the pilot study, we are using the same
anagram task as Schweitzer et al. We will be using the data from the pilot
study to determine how many anagrams students can complete (on
average) and determine realistic performance goals for the main study
(STUDY 2). STUDY 2: Our rst objective is to conduct a global replication of
Schweitzer et al.’s (2004) foundational study. We use a “constructive”
replication approach that addresses limitations of the original study while
retaining its key strengths (see Köhler & Cortina, 2021). Our second
objective is to advance our foundational understanding related to what
extent, when, and for whom goals prompt unethical behavior. By examining
the effects of trait loss aversion and goal proximity on unethical behavior,
we provide a direct empirical test of the previously theorized role of loss
aversion (Ordóñez & Wu, 2013). Answering these questions is important
for strengthening the empirical foundation of the dark-side of goal-setting
literature, generating a shared understanding between goal-setting and
behavioral ethics scholars, and developing novel theoretical insights that
can guide future research.

STUDY 1: We are conducting a pilot study to determine realistic
performance goals for our main study. Participants will be given a series of
anagrams and asked to create as many words as possible across multiple
rounds. We will be using these data to determine how many anagrams
participants can be expected to complete in a given amount of time. They
will also complete a survey measuring their attitudes towards the task and
basic demographic information. This study will inform the procedures of a
future study, which will ultimately contribute to the academic literature by
advancing our understanding of the effects of goal-setting on individuals'
behavior. STUDY 2: The goal setting literature currently recognizes that
setting specic, challenging goals can prompt people to overstate their
performance. We are interested in exploring this effect further by
examining to what extent, when, and for whom goals promote this effect.
To do so, we are replicating a highly cited paper along with other sites. In
the experiment, participants will be assigned different goals. They will be
asked solve a series of anagrams and report their score, which is designed
to allow us to determine who has over-reported their performance. This
research will contribute to the academic literature by advancing our
understanding of the effects of goal-setting on individuals' behavior.
STUDY 1: N/A (a pilot study that will inform the procedures of a
subsequent study; single condition). STUDY 2: An experiment. Participants
will be randomly assigned to one of the following conditions: 1) "do your
best," 2) "mere goal," 3) "reward goal," or 4) "personal goal."
No

STUDY 1: 70-80. STUDY 2: 200.
No
STUDY 1: As this is part of a replication project, our goal is to follow
Schweitzer et al. (2004)'s procedure as closely as possible. Their original
pilot study included 70 participants. STUDY 2: This data collection is part
of a large multi-site replication study. All sites have agreed to contribute
200 participants to the overall dataset.
On a University of Waterloo campus
No
Yes

Ongoing funding
Tri-agency / Canadian Government sponsor
SSHRC - Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council
Insight Grant
50656-10196 500

April 1, 2023
March 31, 2027
No
No
This study will contribute to the academic literature by advancing our
understanding of the effects of goal-setting on individuals' behavior.
University of Waterloo undergraduate and/or graduate students

No
Participants must be students registered with the SONA system. No other
inclusion or exclusion criteria will be used.
N/A
No
Database or Participant Pool
SONA participant pool at the Unviersity of Waterloo.
Other
A recruitment ad on the SONA website.

No
Surveys/questionnaires
In-person - Paper and pen/pencil
No

STUDY 1: 1. Participants enter a computer lab in groups of approximately
20 students. 2. They are asked to read a consent form and given the
opportunity to ask questions before signing it. 3. Participants receive a
package of study materials (hard copies only) containing the anagram
task. The goal of this task is to create as many words as possible from a
given series of letters. 4. Participants complete 2 practice rounds of the
anagram task (1 minute per round). 5. Next, they are instructed to do their
best on the main task and complete a goal commitment measure. 6.
Participants complete 8 more anagram trials. 7. Participants check their
work. They are instructed that they can use an online Scrabble dictionary
(e.g., https://scrabble.merriam.com/) if they wish. The Scrabble dictionary
website can be accessed using the lab computer in front of them. No
online/computer data will be collected/stored. 8. Participants indicate how
many words they were able to create in each round (i.e., <9 or >9). 9. Finally,
they complete some demographic measures and measures of their
perceptions/attitudes of the anagram task. 10. Participants receive a
feedback/appreciation form. STUDY 2: 1. Participants enter a computer lab
in groups of approximately 20 students (minimum of 5 students per
session). 2. They are asked to read a consent form and given the
opportunity to ask questions before signing it. The consent forms are then
collected. 3. Participants receive a package of study materials (hard copies
only) containing the anagram task. The task involves creating words from a
given series of letters. 4. Participants complete 2 practice rounds of the
anagram task. 5. Participants receive instructions for the main rounds of
the anagram task. The specic instructions/"goal" that participants are
given varies across conditions. There are four conditions to which
participants are randomly assigned: “do your best,” “mere goal,” “personal
goal,” or “reward goal”. In the “do your best” condition, participants are told
to “do your best to create as many words as you can” on the following
trials. In the “mere goal” condition, participants are given a specic
challenging goal. The instructions are: "It is important that you commit to a
specic yet attainable goal. Your goal is to create 8 words during the
allotted 1 minute using these 7 letters. This goal is dicult, but realistic. In

previous studies, many students were able to create 8 or more words per
round using the same groups of letters you are about to see." The “personal
goal” condition uses the same instructions as the “mere goal” condition
but omits the sentence containing the social comparison information (“In
previous studies…”). This condition has been added to examine whether
social comparison information may have operated as a potential confound
in the original study. In the “reward goal” condition, participants receive the
same instructions as the mere goal condition but are also told they will
earn $1 for each round in which they meet the goal. Following these
instructions, they complete a measure of commitment to the goal. 6.
Participants complete a measure of trait loss aversion and demographics.
7. The researcher(s) leave the room while participants check their work.
They are instructed that they can use an online Scrabble dictionary (e.g.,
https://scrabble.merriam.com/) if they wish. The Scrabble dictionary
website can be accessed using the lab computer in front of them. No
online/computer data will be collected/stored. 8. Participants use their
"productivity report" to indicate how many words they were able to create in
each round (i.e., <7 or >6), and complete a manipulation check and data
quality check. 9. Participants pay themselves by taking money out of an
envelope on their desk (see Remuneration) and deposit any remaining
money along with their study materials in a box. 10. Upon existing the
room, participants receive a feedback/appreciation form from one of the
researchers.
No

No
No
No
No
No
No

Yes - Partial disclosure
A Study in Decision Making
STUDY 1: Study 1 does not involve any partial disclosure or deception.
STUDY 2: Participants are told that the purpose of the study is to examine
how people approach word problems. However, the full purpose of the
study is to examine whether the type of goal that a person receives (i.e., a
"do your best" goal, personal goal, mere goal, or reward goal; see Methods
and Procedures) determines the degree to which they overstate their
performance on these word problems (i.e., report solving more anagrams
than they actually solved). During the study, participants will complete an
anagram task in one booklet and report their performance in a separate
booklet. However, the nal anagram (e.g., "BNMOETR") will be different for
each participant. This will allow us to match their actual performance on
the anagram task (completed in one booklet) to their self-reported
performance (from the other booklet). We will use this to determine
whether/how much each participant over-reported their performance.
Consistent with the original study by Schweitzer et al., participants will
remunerate themselves by taking money out of an envelope placed on their
desk (see Remuneration). While there is a possibility that participants may
take more money than they should, Schweitzer et al. found this to be a very
low base-rate phenomenon (only one participant in their study took
unearned money). Nonetheless, we will record how much money each
participant took from the envelope. This information will not be linked to
the participant's identity.

Participants will receive a feedback/appreciation letter at the end of the
study session (see Feedback and Appreciation).
No known or anticipated risks
None
Yes
Age
Gender
Ethnicity
Education
Other
whether English is their rst language, years they have spoken English,
English prociency, study major, level of study

Yes
STUDY 1: Participants will only put their SONA IDs on the study materials.
These materials will not be linked to their consent forms (or other
identifying information). STUDY 2: Participants will not be identied in any
way. They will NOT be asked to put their name, SONA ID, or any other
identifying information on any data collection materials. (They do put their
name on the consent form, but the consent form cannot be linked to the
other study materials in any way).
N/A
No
Yes
Yes

We are collaborating with researchers from the University of Guelph (listed
on this protocol). The raw data collected at UW may be shared with our
Guelph collaborators, but will not be shared with anyone else. Our study is
part of a larger, multi-site research project. Anonymous data that cannot in
any way be linked to individual participants will be shared with the other
research teams that are part of this multi-site research project to
contribute to a single, large dataset. The data will also be posted on the
Open Science Framework (OSF), a secure online platform.
The raw data (i.e., hard copies) may be shared with our collaborators at
Guelph (listed on this protocol) for the purpose of data analysis and
verication. The data will not contain any information that could potentially
identify a participant. Once they have been entered into electronic format
(e.g., spreadsheet), the anonymous will be shared with the other teams of
our multi-site research project. They will also be posted on the Open
Science Framework (OSF), allowing the researchers to check and compare
data across sites.
No identifying information will be collected. Our collaborators at the
University of Guelph will have access to the raw data. The anonymous data,
which cannot be linked to the participants in any way, may be shared with
our collaborators at other sites via university email or the OSF.
Yes
No

No
Yes
Hard copy / Paper records
Electronic les
Hard copies will be stored in a locked oce at the University of Waterloo.
The researchers on this protocol may also store electronic copies of the
anonymous data on password-protected computers, secure internal
databases or encrypted external drives. Electronic les (containing
anonymized data only) will also be stored on the Open Science Framework
(OSF) for data storage and management. The OSF is a secure and
reputable platform widely used for research data storage and sharing,
ensuring compliance with data protection and privacy standards.
7 years

No
Yes
We will be using the Open Science Framework (OSF) for data storage and
management. The OSF is a secure and reputable platform widely used for
research data storage and sharing, ensuring compliance with data
protection and privacy standards. The data will NEVER contain identiable
information (i.e., participants' names, SONA IDs, etc. will never be
associated with any of the materials). Only anonymous data will be
submitted to the OSF.
Yes
Caitlin Belore, Megan Herrewynen, Jenny Wang, Christine Hwang
No

Written signature on a consent form
All participants
No
No
No
If participants withdraw from the study before data collection is complete,
their data will be destroyed. Participant will still receive remuneration.
Data will be destroyed.

No
Yes
Cash
Participation credits (*Psychology only)
STUDY 2: Renumeration will vary depending on condition. All participants
will receive an envelope containing $14.00. Participants in the “do your
best,” “mere goal,” and “personal goal” conditions will instructed to keep
$10.00. Participants in the “reward goal” condition will be instructed to
keep $7.00 plus an additional $1.00 for each round in which they met their
goal (on average, we expect they will receive approximately $10.00). Thus,
all participants in the study will receive at least $7.00.
STUDY 1: 1 SONA credit for participating in a 1-hour study.
No, participants will receive maximum remuneration
No

Participants will receive a written feedback/appreciation letter.
Immediately after the session.
All participants
Participants are invited to visit the PI's website: https://uwaterloo.ca/
justice-affect-and-morality-lab/
N/A

By submitting this application I agree to the above attestations and will
ensure the research is conducted accordingly

