FEEDBACK/APPRECIATION LETTER
          
A Study in Decision Making


Dr. Christopher Castille, Associate Professor of Management, Nicholls State University, christopher.castille@nicholls.edu

Dr. Ann-Marie R. Castille, Associate Professor of Management, Nicholls State University, ann-marie.castille@nicholls.edu

Dr. Samantha Falgout, Assistant Professor of Accounting, Nicholls State University, samantha.falgout@nicholls.edu

Dr. Kaitlin Gravois, Instructor of Management / MBA, Nicholls State University, kaitlin.gravois@nicholls.edu

Dr. Adrien Maught, Instructor / Student Researcher, Nicholls State University, adrien.maught@nicholls.edu

Thank you for your participation in our study. Your participation helps us to better understand how people complete decision-making tasks. More precisely, we are interested in how different types of goals influence people’s performance and self-reported scores. As part of this study, you were either given a “do your best” goal (i.e., you were instructed to do your best to create as many words as you can), a “mere goal” (i.e., you were given a goal to create 7 or more words and were told that in previous studies many students were able to achieve this goal), a “personal goal” (i.e., you were only given a goal to create 7 or more words), or a “reward goal” (i.e., in addition to being given a goal to create 7 or more words, you were told that your reward depended on your performance). You also completed measures of goal commitment and loss aversion. We are interested in examining whether the effects of goals depend on people’s level of commitment to their goal and their level of loss aversion (i.e., how unpleasant they find it to fall short of a goal).

If you have questions about the study or the procedures, you may contact Dr. Christopher Castille at christopher.castille@nicholls.edu or Dr. Kaitlin Gravois at kaitlin.gravois@nicholls.edu.

This study has been reviewed and received ethics clearance through the Human Subjects Institutional Review Board (HSIRB) at Nicholls State University (Protocol: IRB 2024-07-30-001 CBA). If you have questions for the Board, contact the HSIRB Chairperson or college representative at Nicholls State University.

Thank you again for your assistance. We sincerely hope you enjoyed participating in this study.  
