A Study in Decision Making

You are invited to participate in a research study. This study has been reviewed and received ethics clearance from the Human Subjects Institutional Review Board (HSIRB) at Nicholls State University (Protocol: IRB 2024-07-30-001 CBA). The study is being conducted by Dr. Christopher Castille (Associate Professor of Management, Primary Investigator), Dr. Ann-Marie R. Castille (Associate Professor of Management, Co-Investigator), Dr. Samantha Falgout (Assistant Professor of Accounting, Co-Investigator), Mrs. Kaitlin Gravois (Instructor of Management / MBA, Co-Investigator), and Mr. Adrien Maught (Instructor / Student Researcher, Co-Investigator) from Nicholls State University. This study is part of a larger, multi-site research project.

Participation in this study is voluntary and will take no more than 1 hour of your time. If you agree to participate, you will be asked to complete a decision-making task in a lab or classroom on the Nicholls State University campus. You will also be asked to complete some measures related to the task, a personality measure, and basic demographics. In appreciation of your time, you will receive up to $14.00 cash reward (with a minimum of $10.00 cash for most conditions, or $7.00 base + $1.00 per round met for the reward condition) during the study. By volunteering for this study, you will have an opportunity to learn about research in psychology and management.

You may decide to withdraw from this study at any time by advising the researcher and may do so without loss of your remuneration. Your identity in this study will be kept strictly confidential; your name will not be included or in any other way associated with the data collected in the study. All de-identified data will be securely stored on the Open Science Framework (OSF) and in secure digital locations. Paper copies of the de-identified data will be stored securely for a minimum of 5 to 7 years per APA guidelines. Furthermore, de-identified data related to your participation will be shared with our collaborators at other universities, submitted to an online repository, and submitted to a journal. This process is integral to the research process as it allows other researchers to verify results and avoid duplicating research.

The final decision about participation is yours. You may contact Dr. Christopher Castille (christopher.castille@nicholls.edu) if you have any questions or concerns about this study.
